1)Microservice:
previously monolithics architecture was used for complete applications, even the applications used to be smaller.
But due to increased complexity the architecture is divided into many multiple smaller sized components whcih we call them as microservices.
The main advantages of microservice is that one microservice is not linked to other microservice.
Which makes the development easy without depending on other teams
Also this makes the application larger and scalable according to the needs of the users
Disadvantage is that microservice become many when we are increasing the components in the project ,which makes the calling of microservices harder
And since there are many services running , and if a microservice is under problem,it would be harder to detect the root problem.

2)Restful:
An api can be called as restful or restful api if it follows the rules of REST.
api are generally used to communicate between the servers or software systems.
The rules of rest api are 
clinet server difference like who is asking and who is sending
stateless meaning every request should be addressed by the server using some information
Similar terminology meaning all api use same http names such as get put post delete
cache meaning clients data can be cached.

3)monolithic:
This architecture means that the entire application is done as a single unit, as in the name mono
This is very useful when the application is smaller and can be easily deployed
But if there is any problem in it , entire application goes down
microservice:
in this the big unit of application is divided into smaller chunks called microservices as in the name micro
These services have their own business logic and database which are independent to other services.
This independency helps to build complex applications

4)rest api vs soap api
rest api has rules which are simple and easy for web appplications,but soap is protocol which uses set of rules which are
more complex than rest api rules.This means that there is more security when it comes to soap api.
soap uses xml formatting which is also more into function driven,but rest api supports html,xml.json which is best suited for web applications
which is more data driven.So we can call a function in rest by using /somefunction but in rest we have to use something like calling somefunction()
Other main difference would be caching data which is only possible in rest api.

5)http request
This is normally performed by a client, the one who needs data
When the client makes a request using the url it fetches the url data from a server
in detail the get method is called by the http protocol which responses with the data of the url

6)endpoint
To connect to a service we use a endpoint.So this endpoint is like a entry point to that service we need.
handler
this is a function or method which returns a response or request information between endpoints or services.